---
bibliography:
- \$BIB.bib
---

**Syllabus: ECON 4002.02-101 (17086)**

**Intermediate Macroeconomics Theory**

**Autumn 2022**

Instructor: Hui-Jun Chen

Last Update: 2022-08-09

Lastest Version: [Click
Here](https://huijunchen9260.github.io/pdf/IntermediateMacroAutumn2022/syllabus/build/syllabus.pdf)

# Course Overview {#course-overview .unnumbered}

-   Course website:

    -   Materials:
        [Webpage](https://huijunchen9260.github.io/IntermediateMacroAutumn2022.html)

    -   Quizzes / Exam:
        [Carmen](https://osu.instructure.com/courses/127406)

    -   Calculus videos: [The Essence of
        Calculus](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WUvTyaaNkzM&list=PLZHQObOWTQDMsr9K-rj53DwVRMYO3t5Yr)

    -   Zoom:

        -   <https://tinyurl.com/2s4hr365>

        -   Meeting ID: 951 7226 1996; Password: 946301

-   Meeting Time: Monday, Wednesday 12:45AM - 2:05PM

-   Location: Room 030, Hitchcock Hall, 2070 Neil Ave, Columbus, OH
    43210, USA

-   Class Dates: Aug 23, 2022 - Dec 15, 2022

-   Email address:
    [chen.9260@buckeyemail.osu.edu](chen.9260@buckeyemail.osu.edu).

-   Please do not hesitate to email me and set an appointment outside of
    regular office hour. To get email reply, you **must** satisfy two
    conditions below:

    1.  DO **NOT** SEND TO CARMEN EMAIL.

    2.  Use `[E4002.01]` at the beginning of your subject title.

        -   example title: `[E4002.01] Question regarding Extra credit`

-   I will reply your email within *2 business day*.

-   Office hour: Tuesday and Thursday, 10:40AM - 11:40AM, on [Zoom
    Link](https://osu.zoom.us/j/95172261996?pwd=bHVuRlU5dHlmSUx5STcycDBkOVdpZz09)

# Grades {#grades .unnumbered}

  Categories                        Points
  --------------------------------- ------------
  Problem sets on course material   20 points
  Quizzes on Calculus videos        20 points
  Midterm Exam                      25 points
  Final Exam                        25 points
  Attendance                        10 points
  Total                             100 points

*See course schedule, below, for due dates*

# Grading Policy {#grading-policy .unnumbered}

## Quizzes / Exams {#quizzes-exams .unnumbered}

Weekly quizzes in this class: [Calculus materials]{.underline}. You will
have **unlimited** attempts and **unlimited time** per attempt for
quizzes of Calculus materials. When calculating the final grade, I will
**drop one quiz with the lowest grade** in each category (except Quiz on
Calculus, Ch. 10 & 11).

The exact due date and time for quizzes and exams should refer to the
schedule below and the setting on Carmen. In principle, all quizzes are
due on **Sunday 11:59pm**, and the answer is available on **next
Monday**.

Late quizzes are not accepted, unless you have formal excuse (require
formal documentation, and the **instrutor still has rights to decide
whether to extend the quiz / exams for this excuse**).

Final exam are cumulative, so the content from the midterm is also
included in final exam.

# Quizzes and Examinations Integrity Policies {#quizzes-and-examinations-integrity-policies .unnumbered}

**Quizzes**: Discussions are **encouraged**, but each person must hand
in their own quiz on Carmen.

**Examinations**: Discussions are **forbidden**, either face to face or
via online discussion board / Social media.

## Curving {#curving .unnumbered}

If less than $40\%$ of the students get A- or above, I will add some
points to everybody until $40\%$ of the students get A- or above, but I
don't expect this to occur.

## Problem Sets {#sub:Problem_Sets .unnumbered}

There are four problem sets and each of them worth 5 points. The way to
calculate semester grade on problem set is by
$\frac{ \texttt{correct answers} }{ \texttt{total number of questions} } \times 5$.
For example, if there are 36 questions and you answer 30 correctly, then
you will get $\frac{30}{36} \times 5 \approx 4.16$ points in semester
grade.

Problem sets will be answered on Carmen, which the answer required for
Carmen points should be precisely related to the pdf file provided on
the course website.

## Midterm & Final weight change {#sub:Midterm____Final_weight_change .unnumbered}

After the midterm exam, there will be a survey on Carmen asking whether
you want to change the weight between midterm and final from $25$ points
each to $10$ points for midterm and $40$ points for final. This survey
will due **before** the final exam date, and you cannot change the
weight between midterm and final after you took the final exam.

# Tentative Course Schedule (Updated: 2022-08-09) {#tentative-course-schedule-updated-2022-08-09 .unnumbered}

  Wk   Days        Quizzes and Deadlines                                             Topics and Readings
  ---- ----------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- ------------------------------------------------------------------
  1    08/24       Essence of Calculus Ch.1 Syllabus Deadline: 08/28 11:59pm         Topic: Introduction
  2    08/29 /31   Essence of Calculus Ch.2 Deadline: 09/04 11:59pm                  Topic: Measurement I Topic: Measurement II
  3    09/05 /07   Essence of Calculus Ch.3 Problem Set 1 Deadline: 09/11 11:59pm    Topic: Consumer Preference I Topic: Consumer Preference II
  4    09/12 /14   Essence of Calculus Ch.4 Deadline: 09/18 11:59pm                  Topic: Examples Topic: Firms
  5    09/19 /21   Essence of Calculus Ch.5 Deadline: 09/25 11:59pm                  Topic: Competitive Equilibrium Topic: Social Planer's Problem
  6    09/26 /28   Essence of Calculus Ch.6 Problem Set 2 Deadline: 10/02 11:59pm    Topic: Examples Topic: Distorting Taxes
  7    10/03 /05   None                                                              TBA
  8    10/10       None                                                              Midterm Review
  8    10/12       None                                                              Midterm
  9    10/17 /19   Essence of Calculus Ch.7 Deadline: 10/23 11:59pm                  Topic: Two Period Consumer Problem Topic: Two Period Equilibrium
  10   10/24 /26   Essence of Calculus Ch.8 Deadline: 07/10 11:59pm                  Topic: RBC Model Part 1: Consumer Topic: RBC Model Part 2: Firm
  11   10/31 /02   Essence of Calculus Ch.9 Problem Set 3 Deadline: 11/06 11:59pm    Topic: RBC Model Part 3: Competitive Equilibrium
  12   11/07 /09   Essence of Calculus Ch.10 Deadline: 11/13 11:59pm                 Topic: RBC Model Part 4: Examples
  13   11/14 /16   Essence of Calculus Ch.11 Problem Set 4 Deadline: 11/21 11:59pm   Topic: RBC Model Part 5: Applications
  14   11/21       None                                                              TBA
  15   11/28 /30   None                                                              TBA
  16   12/05 /07   None                                                              TBA
  17   12/12       None                                                              Final Exam

# Course learning outcomes {#course-learning-outcomes .unnumbered}

## Social Science Goal {#social-science-goal .unnumbered}

Students understand the systematic study of human behavior and
cognition; the structure of human societies, cultures, and institutions;
and the processes by which individuals, groups, and societies interact,
communicate, and use human, natural, and economic resources.

## Organizations and Polities Expected Learning Outcomes {#organizations-and-polities-expected-learning-outcomes .unnumbered}

1.  Students understand the theories and methods of social scientific
    inquiry as they apply to the study of organizations and polities.

2.  Students understand the formation and durability of political,
    economic, and social organizing principles and their differences and
    similarities across contexts.

3.  Students comprehend and assess the nature and values of
    organizations and polities and their importance in social problem
    solving and policy making.

Economics 4002.02 addresses the theories and methods of social
scientific inquiry through discussion of supply and demand at the
national level, and the measurement of national income and other
macroeconomic measures, along with applications to current events.

Students will learn about the formation and durability of political,
economic, and social organizing principles through discussions of the
origin and structure of central banks as well as other international
organizations, and fiscal and monetary policy. These topics will include
discussion of various commonly accepted points of view.

Students will comprehend and assess the nature and values of
organizations and polities and their importance in social problem
solving and policy making through discussion of fiscal and monetary
policy, business cycles and the Federal Reserve Bank, including its
values and objectives.

# Ohio State's academic integrity policy {#ohio-states-academic-integrity-policy .unnumbered}

Academic integrity is essential to maintaining an environment that
fosters excellence in teaching, research, and other educational and
scholarly activities. Thus, The Ohio State University and the Committee
on Academic Misconduct (COAM) expect that all students have read and
understand the University's Code of Student Conduct, and that all
students will complete all academic and scholarly assignments with
fairness and honesty. Students must recognize that failure to follow the
rules and guidelines established in the University's Code of Student
Conduct and this syllabus may constitute "Academic Misconduct."

The Ohio State University's Code of Student Conduct (Section 3335-23-04)
defines academic misconduct as: "Any activity that tends to compromise
the academic integrity of the University, or subvert the educational
process." Examples of academic misconduct include (but are not limited
to) plagiarism, collusion (unauthorized collaboration), copying the work
of another student, and possession of unauthorized materials during an
examination. Ignorance of the University's Code of Student Conduct is
never considered an "excuse" for academic misconduct, so I recommend
that you review the Code of Student Conduct and, specifically, the
sections dealing with academic misconduct.

**If I suspect that a student has committed academic misconduct in this
course, I am obligated by University Rules to report my suspicions to
the Committee on Academic Misconduct.**  If COAM determines that you
have violated the University's Code of Student Conduct (i.e., committed
academic misconduct), the sanctions for the misconduct could include a
failing grade in this course and suspension or dismissal from the
University.

If you have any questions about the above policy or what constitutes
academic misconduct in this course, please contact me.

Other sources of information on academic misconduct (integrity) to which
you can refer include:

-   The Committee on Academic Misconduct web pages (COAM Home)

-   Ten Suggestions for Preserving Academic Integrity (Ten Suggestions)

-   Eight Cardinal Rules of Academic Integrity
    (www.northwestern.edu/uacc/8cards.htm)

Violating university or course rules as contained in the course syllabus
or other information provided to the student in regard to student
classroom conduct may result in your being removed from the class rolls.

## Other Policies {#other-policies .unnumbered}

Students with disabilities that have been certified by the Office for
Disability Services will be appropriately accommodated. They should
inform the instructor as soon as possible of their needs. Students who
feel that they need an accommodation based on the impact of a disability
should contact the Office for Disability Service. General information is
available at http://www.ods.ohio-state.edu.

The core material contained within this syllabus will either be
discussed in class or assigned as required reading.

If you decide not to complete the course, please formally withdraw from
the class. Failure to officially withdraw will result in an "E" on your
transcript and you will have foregone the opportunity to receive a
refund (partial or full).

You are expected to be on time to class. In those events when you do
arrive at class late, please find a seat as quietly and unobtrusively as
possible. Do not interrupt class to hand in assignments or request
materials. An opportunity will be provided for these activities at an
appropriate time.

We will be doing in-class participation exercises that work via the
internet. Please be sure to bring a mobile device (laptop, tablet, or
smartphone) with you to class each day.

## Economics Learning Center {#economics-learning-center .unnumbered}

Information can be found at
https://economics.osu.edu/economics-learning-center.

## Grading scale {#grading-scale .unnumbered}

-   93--100: A

-   90--92.9: A-

-   87--89.9: B+

-   83--86.9: B

-   80--82.9: B-

-   77--79.9: C+

-   73--76.9: C

-   70 --72.9: C-

-   67 --69.9: D+

-   60 --66.9: D

-   Below 60: E
